we live in an era when critical thinking
has come to be a sort of surrogate
virtue it's the presumed solution to so
many of our problems and whenever we
encounter a problem we attribute it to
the shortcomings of the education system
and the lack of critical thinking don't
tell me it's just me guys I hear this
all the time from the government from
high-level mainstream media and from
low-level youtubers columnist bloggers
personalities like myself who just
struggled to make their voices hear
heard in the cacophony of the Internet
in contrast to the concept of Education
I'd here just like to talk for a minute
about encouragement the video that's
coming is heavily laden with scientific
facts and many of you will not watch the
whole video you'll fast-forward or just
skip the second half of it entirely I
know this mm-hmm
and it's also in part a criticism of the
particular personality who's been
representing or misrepresenting these
facts within the vegan digital
demi-monde Carly Taylor so Carly Taylor
is mostly known as the girlfriend of
James ASPI and to my knowledge she is 23
years old she has formal education in
biomedical sciences she has formal
education in chemistry in psychology and
that would certainly include the reading
of medical literature this kind and the
interpretation of statistics whether you
think of those as social science
statistics course statistics as used in
medical research when looking at
basically the numbers for how effective
drugs are and the outcomes of trials
however Carly is currently in a romance
with a man who teaches meditation
someone who preaches Vipassana and a
very spiritual soft hippie approach to
veganism and it's obvious that she's not
being encouraged to think about
scientific problems scientifically she's
not being encouraged to think about
medical problems medically
now this second video on the subject is
partly a response to the fact that
Melissa was shocked when she learned
that currently had this kind of
education I pointed it out to her and
she suddenly regretted that in her first
video
she was so flattering or polite towards
Carly
she asked me repeatedly before she
uploaded her first video if I thought
she wasn't being too mean or too harsh
towards Carly and her criticism there
and then when she found out she had this
educational background she said oh I I
should have been much much harsher on
this woman now why is that
what are the assumptions here and what's
the the kind of you know that what's the
picture frame that prefigures how we
perceive these personalities and the
information we receive from them in
recent videos of complaint at length
about celebrity culture devouring
politics we also have a problem of
celebrity culture devouring the
biomedical sciences people were learning
about science and health from
celebrities and in a sense only learning
things they want to learn only hearing
voices they want to hear and whether
they examine it or not they may be
hearing these voices because they have a
pretty face because they're connected to
some celebrity they're following because
they agree with them or appeal to them
in in any number of really irrational
and perhaps aesthetic and perhaps rather
shallow ways so this turnaround of my
girlfriend's part was partly because of
this discovery of really who Carly is
and it's partly also that I read two of
the peer-reviewed studies that my
girlfriend read she read many more she
did quite a lot of research this series
of videos and when I was reading them
things left out at me things seemed
salient and important to me that didn't
leap out when my girlfriend get in the
first reading I said no no this is
really important this is what you've got
a point this this needs attention drawn
to it and again this is a contrast
between education and encouragement
Melissa and Carly are about the same age
and I know they both have a BA from
University and there are two kind of
parallel lives here being lived I'm here
with Melissa and I'm really encouraging
her to think you know in a more exacting
and precise and demanding way to go over
these peer-reviewed studies and share
their no no no are you sure you caught
this like do you see it's saying
something here in passing essentially
here briefly but it's really important
so just to give you a couple of examples
about nine minutes into this video I can
give a time stamp the number ten comes
up ten pregnancies at least ten
pregnancies that were included in the
analysis of the report so you know
minimum of ten and I said no no no this
is mentioned briefly but this is really
important it's important for a number of
reasons one of them being that that's
the kind of tangible number ordinary
people can relate to you're not talking
about an abstract problem of methodology
procedure or philosophy or something and
how this is structured we're saying no
no no look there were at least ten and
pregnancies that were omitted in
calculating the rate of pregnancy that
results using this form of birth control
and there was another one that popped
out at me which was actually reading a
separate peer-reviewed article that's
not discussed in this video I was going
through it and it briefly gave you what
the actual definition of perfect use was
because the I would imperfect use and
then mixed methods and in each report
that needs to be pinned down exactly
what's meant by those terms and this
particular report I was reading perfect
use involved a median of twelve days of
abstinence per cycle that means you're
reviewing this as a form of quote
unquote birth control in which women are
not having any vaginal intercourse for
the perfect.you statistic not having any
vaginal intercourse for 12 out of 25
days the number of days in the cycle is
very right you also look at average and
median for that too they could have a
30-day cycle they could have a 22 day
cycle it varies from woman a woman can
vary from month to month and the number
12 is not the maximum you can
women who are having no sex at all for
15 days or three days these are these
are really glaring problems that are
buried in the methodology people not
people who enter camp
these are not skills I learned in my
formal education at all if I had to rate
the value of education at the University
of Toronto on a scale of one to ten I
would give it a zero if I had to rate
the quality of education at University
of Victoria on a scale of one to ten
trust me it's a zero don't even get me
started and I know that people are
entirely capable of going through the
motions of a BA whether it's in the
sciences philosophy or almost any other
field and learning nothing or learning
remarkably close to nothing despite the
fact that even they get straight A's or
even they get reasonably good grades
without really deeply picking up the
course content or without learning
lessons in a way that they can apply
them to their own lives the way I
develop this habit of mind that I am now
sharing with my girlfriend I'm
encouraging her to think critically as
loath as I am to use that golden that
golden buzzword critical thinking you
know it comes out of caring and I know
caring doesn't sound sophisticated it
doesn't sound as appealing as critical
thinking but the habit of what people
call critical thought for me absolutely
there's no other way to put it
rises out of caring I was in a situation
when I was living in Laos Laos as a
third world country in Southeast Asia
it's just north of Cambodia I was there
and at that time I was trying to get
into the humanitarian sector I wasn't
yet in and I was busy doing ten of the
things and I read this report
humanitarian report on a sex scandal
that involved statutory rape teenagers
getting pregnant and humanitarian
workers having sex lives that were not
really commenced herbal with what donors
thought of as humanitarian work okay and
this was in remote villages of northern
Laos where people were still starving
not in the big city where the quality of
life was much higher with a life
expectancy was a decade longer and so on
but out on the the the edges of the
ragged edges of Lao civilisation where
quality of life was still very low and
where certainly it was possible for
people doing humanitarian work
to reduce the local native people to a
situation of prostitution dependency or
what-have-you if they didn't abide by a
pretty strict moral code there was this
report put out but the agency guilty of
these various transgressions and I got
to see how sitting in a room thirty
other people who just wanted to believe
the [ __ ] who wanted to believe the
hype interpreted the statistics come
first and that the facts presented this
report a hundred percent wrong and I was
the guy who read this and got it right
and just like these examples I mentioned
just like stopping on wait wait wait
what does that sentence mean stop really
think about why did the author put this
in here and why is it phrased this way
because sometimes people are writing
under constraints I mean I can remember
in that report which was supposed to be
counting the number of accidental
pregnancies see the link to this
research document this video
suppose we counted the number of
accidental pregnancies that arose
between humanitarian workers and
barefoot teenagers in these
poverty-stricken villages I've been in
those villages by the way people were
literally barefoot they're not joking
anyway um
intermission of this you just get one
sentence that said in addition to the
cases listed in the table several others
were omitted for the following reason
and you'd have to take that sentence and
say no no this report was supposed to
count the number of pregnancies and
instead there's an unspecified number
that were omitted and it's plural it's
at least two it's at least two or three
we don't know it could be ten and
they've been omitted for these reasons
you know statements like that nobody
taught me how to do this nobody not my
university not my parents I mean nothing
in my upbringing taught me how to do
this but whether I was reading ancient
Buddhist philosophy or completely modern
secular political science I've got to
say what other people call critical
thinking I call caring and this is why
in a sense encouragement is even more
important than education
hey hey there's something wrong here
there's something wrong with your work
you should care and that's really what
I'm trying to share with Melissa and
obviously living parallel lives and the
other side of the world
you've got James ASPI teaching he passes
the meditation of people living his
reckless brainless hippie lifestyle in
the shadow of his you know seven-year
drug habit and all these other things
that have reduced his cognitive capacity
to the level of a shaven ape and you
know he's obviously encouraging her to
play the ukulele and act like a bimbo
and sell this kind of hippy
pseudoscience soft medicine in a context
like this we're talking about endorsing
a dubious form of birth control not
approved by the FDA as a form of birth
control that's in the video next few
minutes that's to follow there's a real
question of what kind of thinking is
being encouraged now the moral of this
story I think is worth telling and
setting up this video
partly because veganism itself so much
comes out of an ethos of care of saying
to people why don't you care I care
these are the facts but the facts alone
are inert and meaningless I need you to
care I need you to look in the mirror in
question why don't you care about what's
on your plate what's on your fork and
what the knock-on ecological effects are
right but I mean all over the world I
mean whatever whether it's the
consequences of u.s. foreign policy of
dropping bombs on a foreign country or
if the consequences of flushing your
toilet
where does your sewage go what are the
impacts of that there's nothing in neat
within us about caring about the
consequences of our action or caring
enough to read a report to read a
document and to really stop to check if
you understand what you're saying to
check if the author understands they're
saying to really just care about the
content again even at that first step of
reading let alone the next step of
coming here on the Internet and then
sharing those recommendations with
others
it will never give you a green day
unless it's 99.4% sure that you are not
fertile that day so that's actually even
more safe than the birth control pill in
terms of preventing pregnancy and that
99.4% statistic is backed by two
clinical trials that are in
peer-reviewed medical journals as well
as 30 years of research so I really did
my research before trying out the Daisy
and this is such a reputable company the
scope of my last video on this topic was
very broad so I'm making a follow-up
video now to never win on just the Daisy
specifically I didn't emphasize enough
in my prior video that there was an
important research article published
which in the harshest terms possible
calls the Daisy study fraudulent and
appeals for it to be redacted Carly you
should know better than to promote a
product from a company who has promoted
itself on fraudulent
efficacy rates you say that you have a
Bachelors of Science in biochemistry you
say that you did the research you didn't
research well enough you weren't
critical enough Carly I feel like with
the Bachelors of Science in biochemistry
you could be doing more for the movement
than recording videos of yourself
hugging puppies or singing over the
rainbow come on Carly this is about sex
this is about pregnancy it's not about
puppies or rainbows you need to take
responsibility just because you're cute
doesn't mean that you can support a
product and endorse a product publicly
that could lead to unintended
pregnancies I think you should take down
your videos gushing about the Daisy
they've been dishonest in their
marketing claims and they've used
statistics that are based on bad science
to push their products I hope that by
the end of this video you can see that
there are legit researchers who have
gone into this themselves I hope that by
the end of this video you can realize
that the Daisy is a scam I hope that you
can realize that the Daisy is basically
just an overpriced thermometer don't
trust this product don't buy this
product
this is a tweet from Chelsea B Paulus
PhD she says it wasn't a clinical trial
it was a poorly worded retrospective
mailed survey with a low response rate
and beyond the poor data the analysis
was done incorrectly a responsible
company would stop promoting misleading
information and thereby would stop
putting people at risk of unintended
pregnancy this screenshot is from the
daisies website in their terms and
conditions I'm just going to read a
couple parts but this is the general
disclaimer for the Daisy device they say
Daisy is a fertility monitor and not
fda-approved as a contraceptive method
or device we do not accept liability for
claims made by the manufacturer or other
material resources I did include a link
to this study in the description box
below but I thought I would go through
it and read out some of the most
important parts so the study is titled
published analysis of contraceptive
effectiveness of dayz and dayz view app
is fatally flawed and it was published
by Chelsea B Paulus the background of
the study reads in March 2018
dr. Martin C Koch and colleagues
published an analysis purporting to
measure the effectiveness of the Daisy
device and Daisy view the prevention of
unintended pregnancy unfortunately the
analysis was flawed in multiple ways
which render the estimates unreliable
unreliable estimates of contraceptive
effectiveness can endanger public health
the main body reads this commentary
details multiple concerns pertaining to
the collection and analysis of data in
Koch and associates 2018 a key concern
pertains to the inappropriate exclusion
of all women with fewer than 13 cycles
of views from the Perl index
calculations which has no basis and
standard effectiveness calculations I
included parts from a webinar that
Chelsea Paulus and a gynecologist have
recorded so that's later in this video
and in that they discuss why a research
study such as this can't actually use
the statistics to calculate a pearl
index it's because it's a retrospective
study that any pearl index calculation
any perfect use calculation really can't
be made from this type of research
okay so I continue multiple additional
methodological concerns as well as prior
attempts to directly convey concerns to
the manufacturer regarding marketing
materials based on prior inaccurate
analyses are also discussed in the
conclusion
she says the Koch and associates 2018
publication produced unreliable
estimates of contraceptive effectiveness
for the Daisy device and Daisy view app
which are likely substantially higher
than the actual contraceptive
effectiveness of the device and app
those estimates are being used in
marketing materials which may
inappropriately inflate consumer
confidence and leave consumers more
vulnerable than expected to the risk of
unintended pregnancy prior attempts to
directly convey concerns to the
manufacturer of this device were
unsuccessful in preventing publication
of subsequent inaccurate analyses to
protect public health concerns with this
analysis should be documented in the
published literature the Koch and
associates 2018 analysis should be
retracted and marketing materials on
contraceptive effectiveness should be
subjected to appropriate oversight so as
I said in the harshest terms possible in
a formal research article they condemned
Daisy and say that their study was
fraudulent and could lead to unintended
pregnancy and that it's a public health
concern so in the background section of
this article I think this is rather
important so this commentary argues that
this paper merits retraction given the
demonstrated potential for these
estimates to be used in marketing
materials leading to public confusion
about the actual contraceptive
effectiveness of the Daisy device and a
CPU app the manufacturer of Daisy has
cited this study the 20 2018 study in
contraceptive effectiveness claims in
marketing materials and in figure 1 you
can see that they have used this on
their Facebook page for the Daisy
fertility monitor they say that now with
the release of our new clinical trial we
have shown that Daisy when used in
combination with the Daisy view app is
even more effective 99.4% so in the main
text the author says that the coke and
associates 2018 effectiveness estimate
are fatally flawed and unreliable for
multiple reasons first their purl index
calculations are void of meaning since
the author's inappropriately excluded
from the Perl index calculations all
women with fewer than 13 cycles of use
ignoring cycle and pregnancy information
from the majority of study participants
this approach has no basis in standard
effectiveness estimation approaches and
would severely underestimate unintended
pregnancy rates by inappropriately
excluding women who may be at greatest
risk of unintended pregnancy there was a
table in the study from 2018 which
suggested that at least 10 pregnancies
occurred to women with fewer than 13
cycles but these pregnancies were not
included in the Perl index calculations
so the calculations were flawed because
they didn't include these pretty
critical pregnancies in addition the
investigators did not prospectively
collect information regarding perfect or
imperfect use of the method for each
cycle instead they asked about overall
perfect or imperfect use with a
retrospective survey this precludes
their ability to correctly calculate
perfect use unintended pregnancy rates
in either the Perl index or life table
calculations they are not comparable to
correctly estimated perfect use
pregnancy rates for other contraceptive
methods in other studies so the author
says that even if the inappropriate
exclusion of pregnancies were corrected
the underlying data remain unreliable
given the weak approach to pregnancy
ascertain meant if the criteria for
examining the temperature / device use
data were premise upon the woman's self
reporting and unwanted pregnancy on the
survey an unknown number of pregnancies
may have been excluded given that
unwanted pregnancies including those
ending in abortion may be underreported
furthermore the survey question asked
women to report unwanted pregnancies
occurring during Daisy use the term
unwanted is not synonymous with
unintended and it is unclear how women
may have interpreted this question but
standard contraceptive effectiveness
estimates include all unintended
pregnancies including mistimed and
unwanted pregnancies under s attainment
of unintended pregnancies could lead to
inflated estimates of contraceptive
effectiveness
several other aspects of the
questionnaire also raised concern for
example a survey question presumably
attended to ascertain if at baseline
Daisy was being used to avoid or attempt
pregnancy offered the following response
options a to avoid a pregnancy B for
family planning or C both however
response options a and B and therefore
also C are poorly distinguished and
likely to be perceived synonymously by
some respondents meaning that even this
already limited measure of baseline
pregnancy intentions is unreliable
while some issues in data collection and
analysis are not unique to the study
they nonetheless raise additional
concern about the accuracy of the
estimates for example no inclusion
exclusion criteria were described to
ensure that the analytic population was
at meaningful risk of pregnancy also the
majority of survey respondents reported
concurrent use of contraceptive methods
in addition to Daisy the potential
confounding effect of use of other
methods on the effectiveness estimates
is not addressed in the analysis so when
Daisy claims that just using daisy alone
is 99.4% effective they are in effect
using fraudulent science because when
they did this study they also had women
who were participating who used other
contraceptive methods in addition to
just the Daisy so they really can't make
that claim that the Daisy by itself is
ninety five ninety nine point four
percent effective for these reasons this
analysis produced estimates which cannot
be understood as reflective of the true
and still unknown contraceptive
effectiveness of the Daisy device and
Daisy View app our forthcoming
systematic review of studies assessing
the effectiveness of various fertility
awareness based methods carefully
considers the quality of prospective
studies on effectiveness of various fa
BMS studies of extremely poor quality
such as those in the caulk and
associates 2018 study must not be
understood as providing reliable
evidence on contraceptive effectiveness
the manufacturer of the Daisy device
valley electronics has made inaccurate
marketing statements in the past based
on previously published analyses which
purported to assess contraceptive
effectiveness of their products but
which also contained fatal flaws
so you can see that this is the Daisy
USA Twitter page and this is the kind of
marketing that they use they say that
the Daisy is just as effective as the
Paragard the non-hormonal copper IUD in
their marketing Daisy used the ninety
nine point three percent effectiveness
rate here and this is from a study that
also is fatally flawed in the study she
says for example in addition to multiple
concerns pertaining to the methods of
pregnancy as retainment in Freundel 1998
which was collected via mailed
retrospective questionnaire the
calculation which generated a zero point
seven perfect use pearl index used an
incorrect denominator which included all
cycles rather than only cycles of
perfect use which would inflate perfect
use effectiveness rates on the Daisy
fertility monitor Facebook page somebody
asks how can we make Daisy more
effective by tracking other fertility
signs parenthesis cervical fluid and
cervical position on our own and Daisy
fertility monitor responds to this
person saying
Daisy is currently ninety nine point
four percent effective used alone this
ninety nine point four percent
effectiveness rating is based off of
this 2018 study which is fatally flawed
okay finally the conclusions the
scientific and reproductive health
communities have a responsibility to
protect public health by ensuring that
inaccurately conducted analyses of
contraceptive effectiveness
do not put unsuspecting consumers at a
greater than expected risk of
experiencing an unintended pregnancy
women and couples interested in using
any form of contraception including an F
ABM such as Daisy deserve robust
effectiveness data on which to base
their contraceptive decisions
unfortunately the 2018 study from [ __ ]
and associates their estimates are
fatally flawed and inaccurate and are
likely to be substantially higher than
the actual contraceptive effectiveness
of the device and app by using marketing
language based on inaccurate analyses
belly electronics falsely increases
consumer confidence and the
effectiveness of the Daisy device and
the Daisy View app which could endanger
the well-being of their customers to
protect public health scientific
integrity and potential customers
these concerns should be documented in
the published literature the Koch and
associates 2018 analysis should be
retracted and marketing materials on
contraceptive effectiveness should be
subjected to appropriate oversight this
issue isn't discussed in Chelsea
policies paper but I thought I would
mention this issue so in the general
disclaimer on Daisy's website they say
that conclusions regarding the
contraceptive reliability of monitoring
basal body temperature are based upon
independent studies but if you look at
the bottom of the 2018 study in the
section that says competing interests it
says we have read and understood BMJ
policy on declaration of interests and
declare the following interests this
study was funded by the Valle
electronics AG Zurich Switzerland NV dr
is an internal scientist and employee of
the company and vdr analyzed the stored
data so this is pretty damning and a
pretty important conflict of interest to
be noting about this study so I'm gonna
end this video with edited clips from a
webinar from Chelsea B Palace and dr.
Rachel Arita their presentation was
called effectiveness of fertility
awareness based methods for pregnancy
prevention and in this they discuss
their scientific study in which they
really comprehensively went through all
the research available and they talk
about the actual effectiveness rates of
all the available fertility awareness
based methods on the market or that you
can use in your everyday life it is
notable that in their research they
didn't include any studies about the
Daisy or any studies from valley
electronics dr. Chelsea Poulos is a
reproductive health epidemiologist and
senior research scientist at the gue
mocker Institute she has extensive
experience in research on contraception
and has conducted multiple studies
pertaining to contraceptive
effectiveness safety and susceptibility
for a range of contraceptive methods dr.
Poulos recently completed an analysis
assessing how use of multiple
contraceptive methods such as how use of
FA BMS in conjunction with barrier
methods during the Fertile window
impacts the estimation of FA B
prevalence in the United States along
with dr. Victoria Jennings of the
Institute for Reproductive Health dr.
Poulos wrote the chapter on fertility
awareness based methods in the upcoming
edition of contraceptive technology
she's also organized a panel pilot
presentation on FA BMS at the 2017 North
American forum on family planning and
has presented on FA BMS to global
audiences she is a member of the
scientific subcommittee for the
association of fertility awareness
professionals and serves as a guest
lecturer on scientific literacy to
students of fertility awareness
education programs dr. Rachel Aroo TIA
is board-certified in obstetrics and
gynecology as well as preventive
medicine she grew up in New England
completed her MD at Harvard Medical
School and moved to North Carolina for
her residency in obstetrics and
gynecology at Duke University
she has been an assistant professor at
the University of North Carolina Chapel
Hill and does her clinical work at
reply' ob/gyn and fertility which has a
practice focused on promoting access to
fertility awareness based methods her
research is focused on using women's
health visits has an opportunity to
prevent chronic disease and on the use
and effectiveness of FA BMS for avoiding
pregnancies she is also a certified
instructor of the sense of plan
fertility awareness based method
substantial confusion exists on the
effectiveness of FA BMS for preventing
pregnancy so we wanted to devote a full
webinar to this specific topic let's
move on to discussing what kinds of
studies can be used to estimate
contraceptive effectiveness two
different study designs can estimate
contraceptive effectiveness
one advantage of prospective studies is
that investigators can collect detailed
information on contraceptive use and how
it changes over time and on information
and information on outcomes like
pregnancies so prospective studies can
sometimes even perform repeated
pregnancy tests on women and this is a
more reliable way of ascertaining if an
unintended pregnancy has occurred more
reliable than asking women to
self-report their preg
these also prospective studies are the
only design that enable calculation of
perfect youth effectiveness estimates
however a major disadvantage is that
estimates from retrospective surveys
depends on accurate recall and reporting
of detailed contraceptive and pregnancy
history by participants and we know that
under reporting of important events like
unintended pregnancies or abortion is
common also if a method is not just
commonly used in the general population
it may be difficult to have enough
information to generate stable
effectiveness estimates for that method
and finally researchers cannot estimate
perfect use effectiveness from
retrospective surveys these this type of
study design can only provide typical
use estimates to summarize the best
available data from prospective studies
on FA BM effectiveness for pregnancy
prevention we conducted a systematic
review to our knowledge this is the most
comprehensive review that has been
conducted on the topic our manuscript is
currently impressed and should be
available in August of 2018 we reviewed
over 8,000 titles and abstracts over 400
full-text articles and ultimately
included 74 articles which represented
53 unique cohorts we did not identify
any studies that we consider to be high
quality we decided at the beginning of
our analysis that we would not present
the effectiveness estimates from low
quality studies we had significant
concern that these estimates were not
accurate given serious problems with the
way the data was collected and or
analyzed
looking at the middle column you can see
that there were 21 moderate quality
studies and these will be the focus of
estimates that I present in the
following slide two examples of basal
body temperature based methods are bio
self and natural cycles we identified
one low quality and one moderate quality
study of bio self the moderate quality
study generated a typical youth
pregnancy probability of a nine per 100
women years and no correctly calculated
perfect use estimates there is one
moderate quality study of natural cycles
and the most conservative estimate from
this study which we determined to be the
most reliable estimate
generated a typical youth pregnancy rate
as 9.8 per 100 women years correctly
calculated perfect use probabilities
were not available at the time of the
literature search so a publication with
a perfect youth estimate was
subsequently published in addition there
were four other basal body temperature
based method studies of a variety of
different methods and the effectiveness
estimates will not be described for
these methods because they were all low
quality studies no Studies on the Daisy
or any other devices from belly
electronics were included in their
comprehensive study this means that
there are no high quality moderate
quality or low quality studies done on
the Daisy the sensor plan and marquette
monitor based studies demonstrate the
lowest probabilities of unintended
pregnancies and may potentially be the
most effective fertility awareness based
methods however this is based on a small
number of moderate quality studies in
specific populations and so more
evidence would be needed to state this
confidently a very few studies
accurately calculated perfect youth
effectiveness estimates
however the lowest perfect use estimates
were again four cents a plan and the
market monitor both having less than one
percent pregnancy rates for
probabilities among perfect youth cycles
there's a suggestion that some FA BMS
may have promising perfect use pregnancy
rates however fabs in general are highly
dependent on the consistency and
correctness of youth more data would be
required to confirm these estimates so
users of FA BM should be informed about
the known effectiveness estimates or the
lack of effectiveness estimates for the
specific FA BM they are using and they
should be advised not to extrapolate
from effectiveness estimates from
difference may be a method in other
words you cannot infer that the Daisy is
just as effective as sense it plan you
cannot infer that Daisy has the same
effectiveness as natural cycles so this
table includes an overall estimate of
typical use for FA BM a 15% this
estimate primarily reflects people who
report using the rhythm method since the
majority of women in the United States
who report using an FA BM report using
specific
rhythm since this 15% estimate is based
on a retrospective survey as we noted
before calculating perfect use is not
possible so that's why there's no
perfect use in that column estimates
from the prospective studies are in
purple and these should be considered
best-case scenarios and may not be
generalizable to all populations in our
systematic review we did not identify
any high-quality prospective studies on
any method on any si BM method again
estimates from prospective studies
should be considered best case scenarios
and may not be generalizable to a
broader population overall while some
data are available on the effectiveness
of individual FA BM s understanding the
true effectiveness of each unique FA BM
would require data from high quality
studies
[Music]
[Applause]